APIs are typically enabled by
default on the main navigation.
What's the main navigation?
The HTML document that was
loaded with your web app.
But if you have iframes that
are mostly coming from another origin,
so cross-origin iframes,
most of the time, it depends on the API,
but most of the time,
the API won't be available for the iframe.
This was because it was
used in the wrong way.
For example, today,
typically, ads are iframes.
So then you have an ad in a newspaper
that was reading your geolocation,
or your sensors, or things like that.
So today, if you have a website
with cross-origin iframes,
you have to apply,
you have to opt in for those APIs, okay?
So if you wanna turn a capability on or
off, we do have a way to do that,
because also, it's enabled by default.
And probably you're thinking, I'm not
going to use Bluetooth in my website.
And you say, well, it's okay,
if I'm not using it,
what's the problem if my
code is not using it?
But anyone can go to the console and
write some code and
that code will be executed
with your origin.
Makes sense?
It's not a big risk, but anyway, you can
be a bank and then you can have a plugin,
or someone can be injecting a script
somehow and reading your user's
location or something, using
the permission from the bank's website.
So you may wanna turn off from
a security point of view or capability.
For that,
we have an spec known as permissions
policy that has changed its name recently.
Before, it was known as feature policy.
The spec is not a Charscape API, so
that's why we won't cover it too much.
I will show you how that works,
but it's just an HTTP header.
Where?
From your server when you
are serving the HTML,
you can specify that header,
it's called permissions-policy.
And for iframes, it's an HTML attribute.
So the same value that you can
send a financial HTTP header
can be set as an attribute for iframes.
This is how it looks like.
So for example,
permissions policy:geolocation=, and
in parentheses, in this case,
you can express self.
That is, I'm enabling geolocation for
my website, for my origin,
and also for these other two, or three,
or four, or infinite other domains.
So in this case, you are kind of enabled
cross-domain usage for geolocation.
This is an HTTP header,
not the JavaScript API.
If you wanna remove the permission,
you use the name of the capability
equals empty parentheses.
In that case,
it's an empty list, so no one has access
to geolocation on this particular domain.
If you open the console,
you try to use API,
it will deny you access to the capability,
because the server set so for
this HTML, for this web app, okay?
Make sense?
You can define multiple policies at
the same time in just one definition.
Such as, in this case,
we have geolocation, space,
camera, space, picture-in-picture,
that's another capability.
So in this case, for geolocation,
you have a declaration of domains.
For camera, you have a star, meaning
that anyone in this navigation load
can access the camera and
picture-in-picture is disabled.
And also, you can express
several permissions policy,
HTTP headers in the same load.
In this case, in another line,
you also disable Bluetooth, okay?
So with this,
you can have final control over,
which capabilities will be available for
your website.
And then we have permissions API.
This is the first API that we will see,
the real API, one of 36.
It looks, I mean,
the name is strong, right,
permissions API, but it's chaos, actually.
So the idea of the API was to bring
all the permissions in one places.
Because in the history
of web capabilities,
every API was different, okay?
I think that the first real capability
that we added was geolocation and
the iPhone was the first one.
When Steve Jobs presented the iPhone and
Safari for the iPhone, and
he was saying that web apps
were the way to grade apps.
Apple at that point didn't have
the app store or native apps,
didn't have the idea of the app store and
they were promoting web apps,
the power of the web, okay,
that an old Apple, anyway.
And they added capabilities,
they added Canvas for 2D drawing.
And later on, they added geolocation,
that was the first one,
the first capability API that we've seen.
And it was chaos to know if
you had permission or not.
And every new API that appeared in
the market, a new capability API,
has its own API.
So that's why they created
the Permissions API.
What's the problem?
That today, it depends on the browser.
Some capabilities are in the API,
in this one in permissions API and
some are not, and
you don't know which one is in and
it's a really narrow sub list of options.
What's the deal here?
You call navigator permissions query and
an object.
In this case, with a name, such as
the name I wanna check for geolocation.
And then, we check the state of that
response, the state is a string.
It can be granted, so you're good to go.
For this origin,
you can use the Geolocation API.
You can be prompt,
which means we don't know yet.
So next time you try it,
we will prompt the user or deny.
And if it doesn't support that
permission at all, such as geolocation,
now it says in this phone, in this device,
we don't have a Geolocation API,
it will throw an exception, okay?
So it's nice, the problem is that is
not available for every capability.
So only for a few, and
each browser has its own sub list.
So I would argue that not a lot of
web apps are actually using this API.